Just think about it.  You have taken health insurance of ₹1 crore
and for this you are
also paying a good premium to the company.
But if there is any problem
in the intention, process or system of handling claims of this company
then there is no benefit in taking this policy.  It is a
simple matter that if there
is a mistake in the tailor then no matter how
expensive the cloth you have bought, you are sure to suffer a loss.
Now the question arises how to check the
actual performance of a health insurance company
?  Should I check online reviews
?  But how many people are
able to share their experiences online?
Let's find out from the hospital which
company's services are good.  So you can
find out this in the hospitals of your city.
But what about the rest of the hospitals?  So let's
ask the agent
which is the best health insurance company?  Hey brother, his
company is the best health insurance company.
So what is the solution to this problem?   The
solution is the latest data on claims.  That is why
in today's video we will review
how Aditya Birla Health Insurance Company has performed in terms of claims in the first quarter of 2025 i.e. in the months of April, May and June.  We will know
what is their incurred claim ratio?
What is their claim settlement ratio?  And along with this,
how many complaints have been registered by All Over India policy holders
in these three months.
So if you want to know the complete and latest claims picture of Aditya Birla
and also want to compare it with your company, then
you must watch today's video.  So what are you waiting for
?  Let's quickly start this video.  The
first matrix, the first
ratio we will check is the claims paid ratio.
This will show that if within these three months the
policy holders have asked for a claim of ₹100
from the company.  How much of that money did the
company give him as claim?
And what is its formula?  Claims Amount
Paid means the amount of claim paid that will be
divided by the total amount
claimed.  That is, how much money did the total
soldiers ask for and we will multiply it
by 100 because we have to calculate this figure in percentage.
I have extracted this data from the table you see above.   The
total claim amount booked during the last 3
months was Rs 1,024 crore.  An estimated claim of ₹124 crore has been
booked.  Total claims
booked.  This much money was demanded from the company.
Re-op means that earlier some claims were
pending which the company had to reopen.
He was worth approximately ₹17 crore.
Apart from this, some claims were carried forward from the previous quarter
on which a decision can be
taken within this quarter.  He was worth
approximately ₹129 or ₹130 crore, so
let's add him to this.  However, when the company
reports its financial
data and claims data, it may
subtract these claims because there is
no data for this quarter.  But we
want to see what is the data on all the claims on which the
company took decisions in this quarter
?  So, whatever outstanding
claims are there, it is possible that they may have paid this money
in this quarter, so we will add them.  The
outstanding claims of ₹201 crore that remained at the end of this quarter will be
deducted as
no decision was taken on them within this quarter.
Why am I telling you this?
Because our method of reviewing this data as a policy holder may be
different
and the
method of reporting and extracting any data may be
different as per the company norms.
Through this data, we just want to see
how the company
performed in terms of claims during this quarter.  So the
net amount demanded from the company
after adjustments was ₹970
crore.  Now how much of this amount was spent on pay
?  The total amount of Rs 783-784 crore was
given by the company.
₹783.86
crore is shown here, this is the amount in lakhs.  I am
telling you in crores.  So the company paid an amount of Rs 783 or 784
crore as claims.
If we put this data in this formula, then the
total claims paid
ratio that comes out is 80.78,
almost 81.  That means, when a claim of ₹100 was made
from the company,
₹81 was paid out of it.  Next date comes
solvency margin.  The solvency margin is
1.85.  What is solvency margin?
See, the insurance company has
promised to give you no sum insured, suppose if you are
given a policy of ₹1 lakh, then the company has
promised by policy contract that if
you need treatment worth ₹1 lakh, then we will give it to
you.  Now insurance is a regulated business.  It's not like
you and I go and
start an insurance company.  So
these are the norms and guidelines of IRDA
that the insurance company should have one
and a half times the sum assured that it has to pay to the policy holders.
Suppose
they have to give sum insured of ₹100 to their pole
holders, then they should always have ₹150.
Aditya Birla has
₹185 in the first quarter.  Against a sum insured of ₹100.
That is why their solvency ratio is
1.85.  The third data is abundance.  The ratio
is very sharp.  That is the claims reputation
ratio.  Reputation means that when we
filed a claim, the company rejected that claim.
Now in this we will extract two data.
Firstly, we will calculate the by amount i.e. how much
money the company has refused and secondly, we will
calculate the by claim i.e. how many claims out of 100 were
rejected by the company.  Now, first of all,
if we calculate the buy amount, then
its formula is Amount Reputed.
We will divide the amount of money refused to be paid by the
total amount claimed and multiply it
by 100.  For data, we
will use this table in which the
total amount of claims is also mentioned and the
total number of claims is also
mentioned in the next table.  The total reputed claims
amount is listed here as ₹136 to
₹137 crore and ₹49 crore separately.  That is, the
company refused to pay the total claim of Rs 186.56 crore.  Now
what was the total claim asked for?  We have already calculated this amount
in the claims paid ratio.
After the adjustments, whatever
was outstanding was reopened, the
amount that came out was ₹970.42
crores. If we multiply it by 100, then claim
reputation by amount, that is, a claim of ₹100 was
asked for, how much amount was refused, that comes to
19.22%,
which is 19.22%, the money was refused when ₹100 was
asked from the company.  Next comes the
claim reputation ratio by number of
claims.  100 claims were filed.  Till now
we thought that ₹100 was asked for.
How much money was refused from that?  But if 100 claims were
filed, how many of them were
rejected by Aditya Birla in these three months?  It
is very important to see this data also.   First of all,
we find out the ratios of all this data.
After that, when we
review, we will review all the data from beginning to end
and will know which
metric, which data is very good
and which one is lacking and will try to understand
how the overall company has performed in
these three months.  So the
ratio that comes now is the claim reputation
ratio by the number of claims.  So its
formula is also very simple.  Claims
Reputed: The
number of claims denied by the company, divided
by the total number of claims filed and
multiplied by 100.  We will take the data
from this table.  We have taken the data from here.
Total claims booked were 617358
claims.  The claims are quite high.
How much are reopened claims?  There are 1758 claims.   Outstanding
claims remaining from the previous quarter are
4,784
claims.  This data will be visible here which has been
carried forward from the previous quarter to this quarter.  We are adding this
because it is possible that
these may have been settled within this quarter.  But there are
some outstanding claims which were
not decided this quarter.   It was
not possible to settle them.  He was carried forward
into the next quarter.
And the total outstanding
claims are 49199.
We are minus these.  These claims are from
this quarter only.  But
no decision was taken on this in this quarter,
no decision was taken.  So we will subtract this from the total claims data.
It is possible that
all the claims may be approved within the next quarter
or half the claims may be approved.
We are reviewing only that data once the decision is taken.  So the total net
claims that can be decided
in this quarter are 6171
claims.  Out of this total,
how many reputed claims were rejected?  23121.
This data is clearly written here.
23120 claims were filed during the
period.  During this period these claims were rejected.
So to calculate the reputation ratio, we will
divide the total reputational claims by the
total claims filed during this period and
multiply it by 100, then this ratio comes out to be
3.75, that is, if 100 claims were
filed, out of which approximately four claims were
rejected by the company.  The next ratio comes
friends, Incident Claim Ratio, which you
also call ICR in short form and
it means that if the company
earned a premium of ₹100 in these three months,
how many rupees worth of claims did it give in return for that.
Why do we check this?  Are.  This ratio
tells us whether the company is being too stingy in paying the claim.
Maybe he is
collecting premiums
and not paying as many claims as
he should.  This shows whether the
company
is interested in paying the claim along with taking the premium or not.  We will
also check how much this ratio comes out to be
and whether it is good or bad, we will
discuss it once in the review section.
So the formula to calculate the Incident Claim Ratio
is Net Incident Claims.  That is, how much
cost of claims has been incurred by the company in this quarter
and the net earned
premium.  Net earned premium is the amount of premium collected by the company
for this year's policies within these three months.  There are
some adjustments in that too.
After doing that, he will multiply it by 100.
So the total incurred claim ratio will come out.
Now, in the table here, the
data of net incurred claims is already given.
This is approximately Rs 736.92
crore.  This is in lakhs but I am
telling you in crores.  The company has incurred claims expenses of around ₹73637 crore.
But how much premium have you earned
in this quarter?  They have earned a premium of ₹918 crore
in this quarter.
So just divide these two figures
and multiply them
by 100.  The incurred claim ratio comes out to be
80.27,
which means that when the company collected a premium of ₹100,
they gave claims worth ₹80 in return.
Now friends, let us see in which
state the maximum number of policy
holders buy this policy
of Aditya Birla.  So here on the left side,
you see the names of the states, these are
all states.  Below are the Union Territories
, UTs.  And here in the end, the
total premium that he has paid
to Aditya Birla.  So in which state and union
territory has the highest premium been paid?
Most of the policy holders
like this company and they also give it a try.
Aditya Birla Health
Insurance Company is the most
preferred company in Maharashtra and has
collected a premium of Rs 522.46 crore in these three
months.  Which is Rs
188.56 crore in Karnataka.  In Haryana, premium was
₹144.53 crore in 3 months and
in Telangana, premium was ₹136.78 crore
in the first quarter of 2005.  Now
friends, comes a very interesting
section of number of complaints, that is,
how many complaints are there against the company?  You
will see a lot of data that is quite old.  There is
data from annual reports of two years ago and one year ago.
But this latest data shows you
how many
complaints policy holders have filed
with the company in the last three months i.e. April, May and June 2025.  So here we focus mostly on
complaints related to claims because I think the rest of the complaints are
quite light.  The premium gets
refunded sooner or later and any
concern you have also gets sorted out.
But there is a case of claims in which the
amount can be huge.  It could be the most
troublesome.  Total Complaints
Registered: 828 Total Complaints registered
that were related to claims.  There are
complaints related to claims.  Out of that
151 complaints were fully accepted.  258
complaints were partially accepted.  That means
your point has been accepted but it is possible that
some deductions may have been made in the amount or some
middle path may have been found.  But 417
complaints were completely rejected.  36
complaints are still pending.  So
how many complaints have been made out of 10,000 claims in total
so that we can compare it with other companies also.
So here the total number of claims
is 6194
claims i.e. 6994
claims and total complaints complaints are
only 13 for
every 10,000 claims filed.
Another thing I noticed in the complaints data is that
approximately 50%
of the complaints were fully and partially
accepted.  That means, suppose you made a complaint, then out
of 100 complaints, the company
either completely or partially resolved 50 complaints, that
is,
accepted the complaints.  Now Comes the Final
Ratio The final matrix which is the majority
ratio is the Claim Settlement Ratio.
Claim settlement ratio tells
how efficient the company is.  How
is the intention?  How quickly she wants to settle the claims.
How many claims does she
want to settle?  This indicates the claim settlement
ratio.  And its formula is
number of claims settled i.e. how many claims the
company has settled.  And that will be
divided by the number of claims filed
multiplied by 100.  It is like
how many questions were given in the exam.
How many marks did we score out of that?  This
is the score card.  There is a report card which tells us
how smooth and efficient the settlement of claims is.
This will
tell us the claim settlement ratio.  So the total claims booked
during this time were 617358
claims.  Some reopened ones will add them.
Outstanding claims
from the previous quarter will also be added
as decisions have been taken on them and
some outstanding claims that remain at the end of the quarter will be
considered in the next quarter.  For now, we will see
how many claims were filed and how many of them were
settled.  So the total net claims on which a
decision has been taken,
excluding those on which a decision has not been taken, comes to 670001
claims.  How many claims did the company
pay out of this?  593880
Claims Ver Settled.  So the claim settlement ratio that comes out from these figures
is 96.25%.
I will also tell you my opinion on the claim settlement ratio.
But first, let's
start with the first figure we calculated, the first data we collected, the claims paid ratio, and review what
all this data indicates about the
claims performance of Aditya Birra Health Insurance.  The
first data
was the claims paid ratio, that is, when a claim of ₹100 was
asked from the company, how much
money did the company pay out of it?  So it came out to be around ₹81 approximately.  The
company is giving this much money out of ₹100.  Is that good
or bad?  Among the companies we have reviewed so far,
it is estimated to be around ₹80.
But one thing I
notice here is that the claim settlement ratio is
96%.  That means the company is approving 96 out of 100 claims.
Only 4% of claims were
repudiated or rejected and ₹20 out of 100 were
not paid.  Because the rest of the companies which are
paying ₹80 out of 100, their claim
settlement ratio is around 88 89 90 91%
but the company which is settling 96% of the claims,
its claims paid ratio is 8081, so
somewhere either these claims could be very big
which the company has rejected or repudiated
or there could be deductions from the claims
due to which more claims are getting approved
but the amount being given is a
little less.  The next data is of
solvency margin which is 1.85.  That means for every
₹100 of sum insured i.e.
liability, the company has ₹185.  The
solvency margin of 1.85
cannot be called bad but it
is not comfortable either.  Because if it was more than two,
it could have been considered a comfortable, quite comfortable
solvency margin.  But
now the benchmark guidelines
of IRDA are 1.5 times, it is
above that, it is 1.85, but if there is a little
more improvement in it, then it can be more positive for the
company and the policy holders in terms of financials.  The
next
ratio is Claim Reputation by Amount, that is, when a
claim of ₹100 is asked, how many rupees worth
of claims the company has not paid, then it is approximately
₹19 worth of claims which the company is not paying
and if we add this claims paid ratio, then the
total number of 100
becomes a figure of 100, that is, out of 100, the
company is not paying approximately ₹19 worth of claims.
We have already discussed that the number of
claim settlements of the company is good.  But the
money that is being given to the policy holders
on this data, ₹100 off claim, may
improve a little.  But compared to the other companies
we have reviewed so far,
this data is also decent.  Now
friends comes the claim reputation ratio by
number of claims.  Out of 100 claims
filed, the company is denying only four claims.  This
shows that the
company is interested in approving your valid claims.
Now, within these,
deductions are made in the claim or any query is
asked, time is taken in the claims,
these are different factors.  But out of the claims that have been
settled and the total claims that have been
filed with the company, the
company is rejecting and repudiating only 4% of the claims
and this is a very good figure.  Next
date friends is the incurred claim ratio which is
80.27.
First of all, let us know what is the
ideal Incident Claim Ratio.
If it is around 60 on the lower side then it is
fine.  If it is around 80 on the higher side then it is
very good.  I am talking about this from the
policy holder's perspective.
From their perspective, it's
okay to be around 60, things are working out.
The more it increases, the
better it will be for the policy holder and for the company
it means that the cost of claims is increasing.
They are taking less money from the market
and giving more claims.  This is what it
says and an incurred claim ratio of 80
is perfect for policy holders.  That means
it is very good.  This means that the
company may be collecting less premium
but it is approving the claims properly.
She is not being stingy in saying that since
I have received less premium, I should
also pay less claim.  The premium has come in low but
still the claim amount has been settled satisfactorily.
Now friends, it is time to
discuss the number of complaints which is only
13 complaints but 10,000 claims.
Only 13 complaints against 10,000 claims
because claim rejections are very low.   There is
only 4% claim rejection, it
is reputation.  Therefore, complaints may also reduce.
But here I would like to talk about the
efficiency of the insurance company.  A total of
claims were filed.  This number is not small.
Considering the size of Aditya Birla Health Insurance Company, these are very
high claims.  If you talk about Star Health, the
data we reviewed, the
figure in it was approximately 7 lakh claims, which was the total claims filed
in these three months and the size of Star Health is
many times bigger than Aditya Birla.  So,
having only 13 complaints out of 6,19,000 claims but 10,000 claims is a very positive
indicator.  This shows that
their claims process is quite smooth and
efficient.  Policy holders do
not have to worry much.  Now finally
friends let's talk about claim settlement
ratio.  The company is
settling 96.25 out of 100 claims i.e. approximately 96 claims.  This
shows that the company has
very good intentions
in settling claims.  If we talk about outstanding claims,
at the beginning of the quarter there were
47,000 claims and at the end of the quarter
also there were 49,000 claims which were outstanding.
Now if we compare this with the
previous video we did with ICICI, the
claims were half of this, approximately 3.5
lakh claims were filed but the outstanding
claims were 600.  That means the claim here
is double and the outstanding is also less than ICICI.
Rest we will compare all this data of each company figure by figure.
Once
this series is completed, we will
know which is the best performing company in terms of claims.
Currently, the
good things about Aditya Birla are
that the number of complaints
is very low and the claim settlement ratio is very
good.  The incurred claims ratio is also very
good.  In all three cases, the
company may be among the top three or five companies.
But the company will
also have to work on solvency margins.  They do
not directly affect the policy holder.
But in case any major financial
liability falls on the company, any
emergency occurs, then at that time it will be
very beneficial for the policy holders and the
company will be able to handle those claims comfortably.
And finally let's talk about the claims
paid ratio.  That means, when a claim of ₹100 was asked from the company, the
company paid ₹81 out of it.
This includes rejected claims under ₹19
and deductions as well.  The
total amount that the company did not pay is
₹1 out of 100.  Now to know whether this is good or
bad, we
need to have industry average.  And after we review the data of 7 8 10 top
companies,
when we compare them, then such ratios will
show and indicate whether they are
better or worse than the other companies.
How has been your claims experience with Aditya Birla Health Insurance Company
?  If you have a policy and have
filed a claim,
please share your experience with me in the comments
so that we can see whether the number of complaints
is low due to lack of awareness or whether the
policy holders are really very happy.
In the upcoming videos of this claims data series, we
will review the claims data of many top health insurance companies like HDFC Ergo, Bajaj Allians, Tata AIG, New India
and find out how your company is performing in terms of claims.
So if you
want to know and understand through real data and real insights how your health
insurance company is currently performing,
then stay connected with Insurance Impact
channel.  Be sure to watch the rest of the videos in this series
so that you can better understand and understand the
claims performance of not only your own companies but also the overall companies.
You can watch the videos that have been released so far by
clicking here.  This
is the entire playlist.  I am Harvinder Singh, see you
in the next video.  Till then take
care of yourself, stay happy and stay healthy.  Jai
Hind.